Charts 5.3.0 RNs.mdx (#2316)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart.mdx

title: "Tyk Charts Release Notes"
description: "Release notes documenting updates, enhancements and changes for Tyk Charts."
keywords: "Tyk Charts, Release notes, changelog"
sidebarTitle: "Tyk Charts"
---

****Open Source** ([Mozilla Public License](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/blob/master/LICENSE.md))**

**This page contains all release notes for Tyk Charts displayed in reverse chronological order**

## Support Lifetime
Only the most recent Tyk Charts release is supported. We recommend staying current to minimise exposure to security vulnerabilities from third party dependencies.

---

## 5.3 Release Notes

### 5.3.0 Release Notes

> #### Release Date xx July 2026

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Release Date 09 July 2026
```

Given the time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend customers verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

#### Deprecations
There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions
You can use helm upgrade to upgrade your release
```bash
helm repo add tyk-helm https://helm.tyk.io/public/helm/charts/
helm repo update
helm upgrade [RELEASE_NAME] tyk-helm/[CHART_NAME]
```

#### Downloads
- [Source code](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-charts/archive/refs/tags/v5.3.0.tar.gz)
- [ArtifactHub - tyk-stack](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/tyk-stack/5.3.0)
- [ArtifactHub - tyk-control-plane](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/tyk-control-plane/5.3.0)
- [ArtifactHub - tyk-data-plane](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/tyk-data-plane/5.3.0)
- [ArtifactHub - tyk-oss](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/tyk-helm/tyk-oss/5.3.0)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.3.0" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Added

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Add `imagePullSecrets` support for tyk-bootstrap jobs'>

> You can now configure `imagePullSecrets` for the tyk-bootstrap chart's bootstrap jobs via the new `bootstrap.imagePullSecrets` value (default: `[]`, opt-in, backward-compatible). Setting this value propagates the secret to all bootstrap hook jobs (pre-install, post-install, and pre-delete) automatically through the job's ServiceAccount. The Developer Portal bootstrap job's image is also now configurable through the new `bootstrapJob.image.repository` and `bootstrapJob.image.tag` values, and respects the `global.imageRegistry` prefix, replacing the previously hardcoded `curlimages/curl` image. Together, these changes let Tyk Charts be deployed fully in air-gapped or private-registry environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now configure `imagePullSecrets` for the tyk-bootstrap chart's bootstrap jobs via the new `bootstrap.imagePullSecrets` value (default: `[]`, opt-in, backward-compatible). Setting this value automatically propagates the secret to all bootstrap hook jobs (pre-install, post-install, and pre-delete) via the job's ServiceAccount.

The Developer Portal bootstrap job's image is also now configurable through the new `bootstrapJob.image.repository` and `bootstrapJob.image.tag` values, and respects the `global.imageRegistry` prefix, replacing the previously hardcoded `curlimages/curl` image. Together, these changes enable Tyk Charts to be deployed in air-gapped or private-registry environments.
```

title: "Tyk Charts Release Notes"
description: "Release notes documenting updates, enhancements and changes for Tyk Charts."
keywords: "Tyk Charts, Release notes, changelog"
sidebarTitle: "Tyk Charts"
---

****Open Source** ([Mozilla Public License](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/blob/master/LICENSE.md))**

**This page contains all release notes for Tyk Charts displayed in reverse chronological order**

## Support Lifetime
Only the most recent Tyk Charts release is supported. We recommend staying current to minimise exposure to security vulnerabilities from third party dependencies.

---

## 5.2 Release Notes

### 5.2.1 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx June 2026

#### Release Highlights

> This is a version bump to align with Tyk LTS release 5.8.15.

Reviewer 2: There is a change coming.
